Safemode [CHAOS-25] (#475)
DataDog/chaos-controller: docs/safemode.md

# Safemode

Safemode represents a number of safety nets we have implemented into the chaos controller to help new and experienced users feel more confident deploying new disruptions to their environments.

> Chaos engineering can be scary to use in production environments, but we have learned a lot after using the chaos-controller for years. We've attempted to coalesce these lessons into safety nets that prevent common dangerous options.Having safety nets in place makes the entire process of running chaos experiments in high value environments a little safer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chaos engineering can be scary to use in production environments, but we have learned a lot after using the chaos-controller for years. We've attempted to coalesce these lessons into safety nets that prevent common dangerous options. Having safety nets in place makes the entire process of running chaos experiments in high value environments a little safer.
```

# Safemode

Safemode represents a number of safety nets we have implemented into the chaos controller to help new and experienced users feel more confident deploying new disruptions to their environments.

> The Chaos Controller can be scary to use in production environments, but we learn a lot more running chaos experiments in our production environments. Considering this, having safety nets in place makes the entire process of running chaos experiments in high value environments a little safer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chaos engineering can be scary to use in production environments, but we have learned a lot after using the chaos-controller for years. We've attempted to coalesce these lessons into safety nets that prevent common dangerous options.Having safety nets in place makes the entire process of running chaos experiments in high value environments a little safer.
```

What do you think?

Author: *coalesce*

> Safemoe will be added true by default and will require manual disabling of safety nets in order to bypass. In the disruption schema we have `unsafeMode` which represents ways to remove the safety nets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Safemode is always enabled by default and will require manual disabling of safety nets in order to bypass. In the disruption schema we have `unsafeMode` which represents ways to remove the safety nets.
```

> `disableAll` is self-explainatory while the other disables in the unsafe schema represent each safety net which you may disable one by one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`unsafeMode.disableAll` turns off all safety nets. The other options under `unsafeMode` represent individual safety nets which can be disabled independently.
```

> Please take a look at the example below to see how to use the `unsafeMode` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please take a look at the example below to see how to use `unsafeMode`.
```

## Ignoring Safety Nets

Because the list of safety nets to be implemented will grow in the future, there will surely be overlap with safety nets which will make it difficult for a user who is confident a specific safety net is not necessary but unsure if others will be.
Therefore the controller allows for you to disable specific safety nets in the Safemode Spec. Checkout out example below to see how to remove certain safety nets.
Keep in mind that all safety nets are turned on by default.

### Safety Nets

> | Safety Net                                                | Type | Description                                                                                                                                               | IgnoreName                 |

Reviewer: Could the language under `Description` be a bit more consistent for each?

Author: I will try and be more consistent in the language in the next commitment, please let me know if it is still not consistent.

|-----------------------------------------------------------| ----------- |-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------|

> | Namespace-wide Targeting                                  | Generic | Using generical label selectors (e.x. X) that selects a majority of pods/nodes in a namespace as a target to inject a disruption into                     | DisableCountTooLarge       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Namespace-wide Targeting                                  | Generic | Using generic label selectors that select a majority of pods/nodes in a namespace as a target to inject a disruption into                     | DisableCountTooLarge       |
```

Could we specify the exact percentage, rather than `majority`? (unless it is literally 50+%, then this is fine)

Author: Currently Ive added arbitrary values for the safety check:
80% at the Namespace level
66% at the Cluster level

Not sure what more appropriate values would be, have any ideas?

Reviewer: The values are fine, I just feel we should tell the users the exact numbers we're checking for, here in the docs

| Sporadic Targets                                          | Generic | In a volatile environment where targets are being terminated and created sporadically, disruptions should not be allowed to continue disrupting           | DisableSporadicTargets     |
| No Port and No Host Specified                             | Network | Running a network disruption without specifying a port and a host                                                                                         | DisableNeitherHostNorPort  |

> | Specific Container Disk Disruption on Multi Container Pod | Disk    | The disk disruption is a pod-wide disruption, if a user tries to specify a specific container, they may be unware they are affecting all other containers | DisableSpecificContainDisk |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Specific Container Disk Disruption on Multi Container Pod | Disk    | The disk disruption is a pod-wide disruption, if a user tries to specify a specific container, they may be unaware they are affecting all other containers | DisableSpecificContainDisk |
```

#### Example of Disabling Safemode

```yaml
# In this disruption we are leaving out host and port but disabling the safety net that catches it so we can continue the disruption
apiVersion: chaos.datadoghq.com/v1beta1
kind: Disruption
metadata:
  name: network-ingress
  namespace: chaos-demo
spec:
  level: pod
  selector:
    app: demo-curl
  unsafeMode:
    disableNeitherHostNorPort: true
  count: 1
  network:
    drop: 10
    flow: ingress # disrupt incoming traffic instead of outgoing (requires at least a port or a host to be specified, only works for TCP, please read implementation details before using to know the current limitations)
    hosts:
      drop: 100
```

> 

Reviewer: err_too_many_new_lines

# Safemode

Safemode represents a number of safety nets we have implemented into the chaos controller to help new and experienced users feel more confident deploying new disruptions to their environments.

The Chaos Controller can be scary to use in production environments, but we learn a lot more running chaos experiments in our production environments. Considering this, having safety nets in place makes the entire process of running chaos experiments in high value environments a little safer.

The disruption config has a parameter appropriately named `safeMode` which represents a spec containing several boolean fields.
One of the fields, `IgnoreAll` overrides the rest if set to true. It will ignore every safety net.

> We recommend that `IgnoreAll` be set on the cluster level by default, so maintainers of the controller can turn it on by default in production and maybe off in staging environments.

Reviewer: Sorry that I'm getting so easily confused by double negatives, but we have a field `IgnoreAll`. We recommend it be ON (so true?) in prod. When set to true, we ignore all safety nets? Isn't that the opposite of what we want in prod?

Author: IgnoreAll would be set to false in prod. In our global configurations, we would have ignoreAll set automatically depending on environment, so in prod it would be false. So we recommend it to be False in prod.

Reviewer: > maintainers of the controller can turn it on by default in production

> IgnoreAll would be set to false in prod

So the comment is backwards?

Author: Changing this format in the next commit, so resolving this conversation in favor for the new `Unsafemode` schema.

When `IgnoreAll` is turned off, the user will have the ability to turn specific safety nets off if they are confident that specific ones are not needed for their use case.
Please take a look at the example below to see how to format Safemode in your next disruption.

## Ignoring Safety Nets

Because the list of safety nets to be implemented will grow in the future, there will surely be overlap with safety nets which will make it difficult for a user who is confident a specific safety net is not necessary but unsure if others will be.
Therefore the controller allows for you to ignore specific safety nets in the Safemode Spec. Checkout out example below to see how to remove certain safety nets.
Remember that these fields to turn off specific safety nets is only accessible to the user if the `IgnoreAll` field is false. Otherwise it overrides all other safety nets and turns them off.
Keep in mind that all safety nets are turned on by default when safemode is on (`IgnoreAll` set to False), so all that is necessary to ignore safety nets.

### Safety Nets

| Safety Net  | Type | Description | IgnoreName |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |

> | Namespace-wide Targeting                                  | Generic |  Using generical label selectors (e.x. X) that selects a majority of pods/nodes in a namespace as a target to inject a disruption into                     | ignoreCountToLarge        |

Reviewer: The json value here doesn't match what's in the spec

> | Sporadic Targets                                          | Generic |  In a volatile environment where targets are being terminated and created sporadically, disruptions should not be allowed to continue disrupting           | ignoreSporadicTargets     |

Reviewer: I feel this is too situational and shouldn't be enabled by default

Author: I think there are two options here; We could have disabled by default but it is unlikely any one will ever use it, the safety nets are all enabled by default because the idea is that they are unforeseen events. And if they are seen, they can be ignored. We can also just remove it if it brings no real value. I'd rather the later as I dont like the idea of having specific safety nets disabled by default, they should all be enabled if `IgnoreAll` is false, and then users can start disabling once they realize which ones are not needed.

| No Port or Host Specified                                 | Network |  Running a network disruption without specifying a port or host                                                                                            | ignoreNoPortOrHost        |
| Specific Container Disk Disruption on Multi Container Pod | Disk    |  The disk disruption is a pod-wide disruption, if a user tries to specify a specific container, they may be unware they are affecting all other containers | ignoreSpecificContainDisk |

#### Example

```yaml
apiVersion: chaos.datadoghq.com/v1beta1
kind: Disruption
metadata:
  name: network-ingress
  namespace: chaos-demo
spec:
  level: pod
  selector:
    app: demo-curl
  safeMode:
    ignoreAll: false

>     ignoreNoPortOrHost: true

Reviewer: Why do we need to ignore this if we aren't violating it in this example?

Author: It is a violation, as there is no  `host` parameter in the single item in the `hosts` list.

Reviewer: https://github.com/DataDog/chaos-controller/pull/475#discussion_r785069424

Sorry, with the context of ^, this should be changed too
